src/markdown-pages/feed-the-kids.mdx, before:

---
path: "/projects/feed-the-kids"
date: "2019-08-29"
title: "Feed the Kids"
---
import MdxInlineLink from "../components/mdx-link-inline"

# Feed the Kids
## Registration Transformation through Digitization

### Summary

<MdxInlineLink 
  pTextBefore="The San Diego based organization "
  pTextAfter="
    seeks to improve the lives of families in underdeveloped neighborhoods. 
    Their Feed the Kids program provides weekly meal packages for the families 
    of students that qualify for free lunch. My team was tasked specifically
    with improving the program's registration process."
  aText="It's All About the Kids"
  link="https://www.itsallaboutthekids.org/"
  inNewTab={true}
/>

### Process
#### Background
The program serves King-Chavez Primary Academy, a school where the
majority of students and their families are immigrants to the United
States. Many parents rely on volunteer translators to communicate but they
are not always available. Additionally, the increased number of eligible
families has created a backlog of forms to error check and store.


#### Volunteering and Research
I lead the team's research efforts. We video-called Angela, the founder
of It's All About the Kids. We wanted to learn about her organization,
what her job entailed, and what made her ask for help. Angela laid out her
plans for digitizing the program's registration. We identified that:

- Paper forms pile up and get lost
- Handwriting can be hard to read
- Data is uploaded to Excel anyways
- Angela wants to expand the program

To continue our research, some team members volunteered at a food
distribution event. We interviewed regular volunteers about their thoughts
on the program and registration. With the forms, we identified what
errors were being made and began brainstorming with volunteers on
solutions.

Gigi, a volunteer since the program's beginning, often translated for
parents. We asked her about how we might involve the children in the
registration process. However, Gigi mentioned that...
    
> [Moving from paper to digital] is not a problem, it's a great opportunity.
> [Parents] will eventually learn that other people will be handing them 
> digital forms.

While our goal was to make this specific registration easier,
we could familiarize parents with other forms. I
expanded the scope of our research to examine other forms that parents
might encounter in the future.

#### Design & Development
I worked with my team to wireframe different solutions. I experimented
with a solution similar to usa.gov's Español button underneath the
navigation bar. I also experimented with a toggle to switch between
English and Spanish versions of the form. I considered the present
benefits of each idea but made sure to consider Angela's plans for
expansion.

I considered other solutions such as a text-less form that only utilized
images to request information. A Spanish/English toggle is a two-language
solution, but three or more languages could clutter the page. Quick tests
with paper or prototyping software was a cheap and easy way to try out
different ideas. We brought some of our prototypes to another volunteering
event and were able to gather feedback on them with both parents and
volunteers. Our Spanish-fluent teammates helped parents give the most
direct feedback.

### Project Woes & Pivots
Despite progressing well, our project took a downturn. We underestimated
development time and our client was unable to secure the devices we were
developing for. We backtracked, and instead opted to create our solution
within the Google Suite. Our client had tried using the Google Suite
before, but we never investigated why she stopped using it. A team in our
program had convinced her to use the Google Suite (Sheets) for a different
problem, so we investigated how we could use Google Forms for ours.

The Google Forms app...
- allows field validation to prevent incorrect entries
- automatically uploads and converts data into Sheets
- can be shared to and used on any electronic device
- is backed-up online to prevent data loss

Additionally, there are tools to email or call people who filled out the
form. With just our form, we were able to address problems relevant to our
client, even if they were outside our initial project scope.
 
### Tracking Success
  
In the months following our submission, Angela continued to use our
solution to register more families. Over 50 families have been registered
through our form. New student teams have added to our solution, such as
integrating a sign-in system with our registration form. While both my
team and Angela's original vision had not come to fruition, we
demonstrated we could solve the problem a different way. We didn't need
provide perfection, but we did pave the way for future improvement.

### A Goal and a Dream
While our solution could be improved by future student teams, we hadn't
considered who those future students might be. When we discussed solutions
with volunteers, we thought about having children be part of the solution.
Gigi mentioned a different way for them to help:
  
> If kids see the form, let them know it was made by students.
> Maybe they’ll be inspired to go to UCSD too!
  
Ultimately, the organization's goal was to improve the lives of these
families. Feeding them weekly could only go so far. Gigi wanted us to
inspire the kids, to show them how they can help their communities. We
weren't just building a form for the families, we were also role models to
them. Just as our solution takes iterations to improve, the next
generation of kids can become the next iteration of progress for the
betterment of the world.

<MdxInlineLink 
  pTextBefore="If you would like to know more, you can read our&nbsp;"
  aText="Design Report" 
  link="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_nxxMe7LFWhmZWHQ_tmVB7uVhAREKRUb8F5IZy8tOlg/edit?usp=sharing"
  inNewTab={true}
/>

Commit message:

Content: UC Socially Driven to .mdx, tweaking feed-the-kids to remove unecessary MdxInlineLink component

src/markdown-pages/feed-the-kids.mdx, after:

---
path: "/projects/feed-the-kids"
date: "2019-08-29"
title: "Feed the Kids"
---

# Feed the Kids
## Registration Transformation through Digitization

### Summary
The San Diego based organization 
[It's All About the Kids](https://www.itsallaboutthekids.org/)
seeks to improve the lives of families in underdeveloped neighborhoods. 
Their Feed the Kids program provides weekly meal packages for the families 
of students that qualify for free lunch. My team was tasked specifically
with improving the program's registration process."

### Process
#### Background
The program serves King-Chavez Primary Academy, a school where the
majority of students and their families are immigrants to the United
States. Many parents rely on volunteer translators to communicate but they
are not always available. Additionally, the increased number of eligible
families has created a backlog of forms to error check and store.


#### Volunteering and Research
I lead the team's research efforts. We video-called Angela, the founder
of It's All About the Kids. We wanted to learn about her organization,
what her job entailed, and what made her ask for help. Angela laid out her
plans for digitizing the program's registration. We identified that:

- Paper forms pile up and get lost
- Handwriting can be hard to read
- Data is uploaded to Excel anyways
- Angela wants to expand the program

To continue our research, some team members volunteered at a food
distribution event. We interviewed regular volunteers about their thoughts
on the program and registration. With the forms, we identified what
errors were being made and began brainstorming with volunteers on
solutions.

Gigi, a volunteer since the program's beginning, often translated for
parents. We asked her about how we might involve the children in the
registration process. However, Gigi mentioned that...
    
> [Moving from paper to digital] is not a problem, it's a great opportunity.
> [Parents] will eventually learn that other people will be handing them 
> digital forms.

While our goal was to make this specific registration easier,
we could familiarize parents with other forms. I
expanded the scope of our research to examine other forms that parents
might encounter in the future.

#### Design & Development
I worked with my team to wireframe different solutions. I experimented
with a solution similar to usa.gov's Español button underneath the
navigation bar. I also experimented with a toggle to switch between
English and Spanish versions of the form. I considered the present
benefits of each idea but made sure to consider Angela's plans for
expansion.

I considered other solutions such as a text-less form that only utilized
images to request information. A Spanish/English toggle is a two-language
solution, but three or more languages could clutter the page. Quick tests
with paper or prototyping software was a cheap and easy way to try out
different ideas. We brought some of our prototypes to another volunteering
event and were able to gather feedback on them with both parents and
volunteers. Our Spanish-fluent teammates helped parents give the most
direct feedback.

### Project Woes & Pivots
Despite progressing well, our project took a downturn. We underestimated
development time and our client was unable to secure the devices we were
developing for. We backtracked, and instead opted to create our solution
within the Google Suite. Our client had tried using the Google Suite
before, but we never investigated why she stopped using it. A team in our
program had convinced her to use the Google Suite (Sheets) for a different
problem, so we investigated how we could use Google Forms for ours.

The Google Forms app...
- allows field validation to prevent incorrect entries
- automatically uploads and converts data into Sheets
- can be shared to and used on any electronic device
- is backed-up online to prevent data loss

Additionally, there are tools to email or call people who filled out the
form. With just our form, we were able to address problems relevant to our
client, even if they were outside our initial project scope.
 
### Tracking Success
  
In the months following our submission, Angela continued to use our
solution to register more families. Over 50 families have been registered
through our form. New student teams have added to our solution, such as
integrating a sign-in system with our registration form. While both my
team and Angela's original vision had not come to fruition, we
demonstrated we could solve the problem a different way. We didn't need
provide perfection, but we did pave the way for future improvement.

### A Goal and a Dream
While our solution could be improved by future student teams, we hadn't
considered who those future students might be. When we discussed solutions
with volunteers, we thought about having children be part of the solution.
Gigi mentioned a different way for them to help:
  
> If kids see the form, let them know it was made by students.
> Maybe they’ll be inspired to go to UCSD too!
  
Ultimately, the organization's goal was to improve the lives of these
families. Feeding them weekly could only go so far. Gigi wanted us to
inspire the kids, to show them how they can help their communities. We
weren't just building a form for the families, we were also role models to
them. Just as our solution takes iterations to improve, the next
generation of kids can become the next iteration of progress for the
betterment of the world.

If you would like to know more, you can read our 
[design report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_nxxMe7LFWhmZWHQ_tmVB7uVhAREKRUb8F5IZy8tOlg/edit?usp=sharing).
