src/markdown-pages/uc-socially-driven.mdx, before:

---
path: "/projects/uc-socially-driven"
date: "2019-08-29"
title: "UC Socially Driven"
---

![My Image](../images/shoe-icon.png)

# UC Socially Driven
## Using technology to promote more social experiences

### Summary
For my Social Computing class, we were challenged with creating a novel social 
experience. I teamed up with other students to focus on the stigma of UC San 
Diego being “socially dead.” In testing our prototype, I played the role of a 
chatbot to so that we did not have to immediately consider implementation. 
Our goal was to explore how AI might improve social experiences.

### Solution
Meet up with student peers through an app facilitated by a chatbot that
understands human social conventions. In reality, we had a third person
playing the role of a bot, with the purpose of facilitating conversations.
Our assumption was that a better conversation would lead to increased
commitment to social activities. You can check out our prototype on 
[InVision](http://invis.io/SCAQP3R4A).

### Process
#### Needfinding
My team first sought out opportunities in existing social spaces. We
started with idea of social anxiety disorder but after some interviews, we
became concerned with our project scope. We then pivoted to general fear
over meeting strangers, but scoped this problem into a local context:
meeting peers at our university.

#### Competitive Analysis
I took the lead on examining a range of social applications from Meetup
and Eventbrite to dating apps such as Tinder and Coffee Meets Bagel.
Tinder's interactions emphasized quantity, whereas Coffee Meets Bagel
limited chocies to a quality few. I also examined popular AI usage such as
Siri and Google Assistant when we began integrating chatbots into our
experience.

#### Building Prototypes
We sketched out paper prototypes based on the experience of dating apps.
In contrast to dating, events were emphasized over dates or buddies. We
experimented with the presentation of events. Some quick testing lead us
to make events more detailed than numerous. Essentially, quality
over quantity. We then developed digital prototypes for testing.

Our initial prototype did little to stand out from existing apps. An
augmentation I suggested was the inclusion of a chat bot, inspired by my
recent usage of Google Assistant’s features. Rather than develop a bot, we
decided to have a team member (me) act the role instead, allowing us
on-the-fly adjustments between tests without spending time programming.

#### Testing - Round 1
We recruited students around campus to try out our prototype. They were
tasked with finding an activity they liked and  schedule a meetup with a
buddy. This "buddy" along with the "bot" were secretly team members. Our
"bot" was in the chat room looking for keywords to give information such
as hours open and pricing. In our vision, the bot would pull data from
apps such as Yelp and form them into conversational phrases. The
conversation ends when the two users agree to a time and place, which the
bot would create an event reminder for.

People were quick to understand what the application was for, even before
test runs. When asked what they thought of the concept, people compared
it to other apps.

> So it’s like Tinder for friendships

However, people struggled with the actual usage of the app. There often
existed long moments of silence, struggles with scheduling, and some felt
that the bot did not do anything useful. We addressed this by providing
conversation starters to help the users get to know each other better.
Other changes included limiting activities to those closer to campus.
People could use their own knowledge of the local area to make
conversations more organic.

Another modification we made was moving from real photos on profiles to
avatars. We wanted users to spend less time on people's physical
appearance and more on their other characteristics. We had received
feedback that people wanted to know more about someone else before
committing to meeting them, but looks were not seen as important for
making friends.

#### Testing - Round 2
We tested our new prototypes with the same test setup as before. However,
we also experimented with the chat room script by modifying the chatbot’s
personality and involvement in the conversations. We found that the more
personality the bot responses had, the more people responded positively.
This lead us to try an even more human-like bot, one that was socially
aware. While none of our tests lead to people actually wanting to meet up,
they were interested in the concept and considered what a future version
might be like, and how they’d likely use it.

### Reflections
I enjoyed this project because we had a prototype we could rapidly
iterate through. We were able to make changes between testing that allowed
us to get closer to a truly unique and helpful solution. The feasibility
of implementation was unknown, but we took advantage of our freedom to
push boundaries. While our specific idea might never see the light of day
again, our ability to quickly incorporate feedback and make changes is
something we'll continue to use.

Commit message:

Configured gatsby-config to fix non-overlapping images from remark-images plugin

src/markdown-pages/uc-socially-driven.mdx, after:

---
path: "/projects/uc-socially-driven"
date: "2019-08-29"
title: "UC Socially Driven"
---

# UC Socially Driven
## Using technology to promote more social experiences

### Summary
For my Social Computing class, we were challenged with creating a novel social 
experience. I teamed up with other students to focus on the stigma of UC San 
Diego being “socially dead.” In testing our prototype, I played the role of a 
chatbot to so that we did not have to immediately consider implementation. 
Our goal was to explore how AI might improve social experiences.

![My Image](../images/uc-socially-driven/empty_campus.jpeg)
###### We were inspired by images of our empty campus that often mirrored reality

### Solution
Meet up with student peers through an app facilitated by a chatbot that
understands human social conventions. In reality, we had a third person
playing the role of a bot, with the purpose of facilitating conversations.
Our assumption was that a better conversation would lead to increased
commitment to social activities. You can check out our prototype on 
[InVision](http://invis.io/SCAQP3R4A).

### Process
#### Needfinding
My team first sought out opportunities in existing social spaces. We
started with idea of social anxiety disorder but after some interviews, we
became concerned with our project scope. We then pivoted to general fear
over meeting strangers, but scoped this problem into a local context:
meeting peers at our university.

#### Competitive Analysis
I took the lead on examining a range of social applications from Meetup
and Eventbrite to dating apps such as Tinder and Coffee Meets Bagel.
Tinder's interactions emphasized quantity, whereas Coffee Meets Bagel
limited chocies to a quality few. I also examined popular AI usage such as
Siri and Google Assistant when we began integrating chatbots into our
experience.

#### Building Prototypes
We sketched out paper prototypes based on the experience of dating apps.
In contrast to dating, events were emphasized over dates or buddies. We
experimented with the presentation of events. Some quick testing lead us
to make events more detailed than numerous. Essentially, quality
over quantity. We then developed digital prototypes for testing.

Our initial prototype did little to stand out from existing apps. An
augmentation I suggested was the inclusion of a chat bot, inspired by my
recent usage of Google Assistant’s features. Rather than develop a bot, we
decided to have a team member (me) act the role instead, allowing us
on-the-fly adjustments between tests without spending time programming.

#### Testing - Round 1
We recruited students around campus to try out our prototype. They were
tasked with finding an activity they liked and  schedule a meetup with a
buddy. This "buddy" along with the "bot" were secretly team members. Our
"bot" was in the chat room looking for keywords to give information such
as hours open and pricing. In our vision, the bot would pull data from
apps such as Yelp and form them into conversational phrases. The
conversation ends when the two users agree to a time and place, which the
bot would create an event reminder for.

People were quick to understand what the application was for, even before
test runs. When asked what they thought of the concept, people compared
it to other apps.

> So it’s like Tinder for friendships

However, people struggled with the actual usage of the app. There often
existed long moments of silence, struggles with scheduling, and some felt
that the bot did not do anything useful. We addressed this by providing
conversation starters to help the users get to know each other better.
Other changes included limiting activities to those closer to campus.
People could use their own knowledge of the local area to make
conversations more organic.

Another modification we made was moving from real photos on profiles to
avatars. We wanted users to spend less time on people's physical
appearance and more on their other characteristics. We had received
feedback that people wanted to know more about someone else before
committing to meeting them, but looks were not seen as important for
making friends.

#### Testing - Round 2
We tested our new prototypes with the same test setup as before. However,
we also experimented with the chat room script by modifying the chatbot’s
personality and involvement in the conversations. We found that the more
personality the bot responses had, the more people responded positively.
This lead us to try an even more human-like bot, one that was socially
aware. While none of our tests lead to people actually wanting to meet up,
they were interested in the concept and considered what a future version
might be like, and how they’d likely use it.

### Reflections
I enjoyed this project because we had a prototype we could rapidly
iterate through. We were able to make changes between testing that allowed
us to get closer to a truly unique and helpful solution. The feasibility
of implementation was unknown, but we took advantage of our freedom to
push boundaries. While our specific idea might never see the light of day
again, our ability to quickly incorporate feedback and make changes is
something we'll continue to use.
